First of all, Mr. Badgett, tell us something about
your early life, including the names of your
parents, the dates of their birth and death, if you
know them, the places of their birth, the place and
date of your birth, and schools which you attended
before you came to Texas A&M.
I was born in Denison, Texas, which is in Grayson
County. near what is now the...
In 1906, December 1st, 1906, my father was Walter
Alexander Batchelor, born in Grayson County near
Hector, Texas, which is near Whiteride. Am I
speaking loud enough? My mother was also born in
that area, Margate Alice Blanton, My
grandfather, her father, and mother had migrated
to Texas in the covered wagon train immediately
after the Civil War from the Carolinas.
I graduated from the Denison High School in 1924.
Following
that time, I spent a year at Austin College, which
is in Sherman. about eight or nine miles from my
home, commuting most of the time in urban, which
was in use in those days, from Denison to Dallas and
Waco.
After a year there, taking a liberal arts course, I
came to Texas A&M.
What type of business was your father in, or what
was his occupation? My father was a general
building contractor in Denison, in that area, for
quite a number of years. I don't remember,
probably 40 years or something of that sort. He
died during the war, at which time my two brothers
were both overseas, one of them with patents on him
and one of them with the 7th Army in northern New
York. My mother's still alive. She is 92 years old
now.
She's still living in Denison? She is still living
in Denison. My sister, who is the next youngest
child of me in the family at 65 now, just retired and
lives with my mother.
What factors were involved in your change from,
say, Austin College Liberal Arts to Texas A&M? I
guess I probably went to Austin College because of
its nearness and the fact that I had a scholarship
there when I entered. And during that time, I
believe it was January 19 and 23, I came to A&M for
Texas, State Texas Older Boys Conference and
spent several days here and was very favorably
impressed with the college and having worked with
my father in the construction business, I
naturally had some feeling for looking toward
architecture. And that is why I came here in the
fall of 19 and 25. graduating with a BS in
architecture on the mechanical structural end in
19 and 29,
followed by work on a master's degree in
architecture that year, but didn't complete my
thesis and get my degree until 19 and 32. In the
meantime, I was working with the college
architect In fact, I guess that may be of some
interest how I came to work at A&M. Okay. Could we
step back a minute on something else first? Sure.
How were you, you entered A&M then as a sophomore?
No. No? You had to enter as a fish? I had to enter as a
freshman,
changed into engineering, and taken military
too. I restricted the transfer of credits that I
could use on my architectural degree. In fact, I
only got credit for English. The others were not
applicable to the engineering course. So you did
have to go through the whole freshman year. I was a
freshman after I had met a slime, they called him up
at Austin College at the time.
What were your first reactions to the school? Of
course, you had been here once before, or at least
once, but not as a student. I presume it was
somewhat different when you came as a student.
Well, at the time I came down here, of course, there
were not many highways. At that time, the Southern
Pacific ran several trains, passenger trains,
through College Station. I had left Denison on the
Southern Pacific train to Dallas, where I
transferred. That was in the afternoon. And in
Dallas I ran into a chap named Rayford Lance from
Sherman, who was a sophomore, to be a sophomore at
A&M. And we transferred to the, what was then
called the Owl, a midnight train from left Dallas
about 11.30, arriving at college at 4.30 in the
morning.
We got off the train in a rain at 4.30 in the morning.
And of course, it was pretty dark around there
then. And we carried our handbags. Of course, we
had trunks, so we had to get later. Handbag up to the
campus. Lance having been here a year, we rustled
around and found an empty bed on the bottom floor of
Leggett Hall and spent the rest of the night there.
And then of course that day was registration day
and one of the questions then, well what outfit are
you going to be in? What military science are you
going to take? What company are you going to get in?
And I had met some other prospective freshmen
during the early morning, and we agreed we would
get in some company if we could. I don't remember
that now, but I wound up in A Infantry because the
company we had planned to get in was full at the
time. And fortunately continued living like it
was. The infantry was in Leggett that year and back
in there my junior year. My sophomore year we had, I
always thought the fortunate thing of being able
to live in what was called Hollywood Shacks. That
was an interesting place for anyone but a
freshman. We had running wood and water and of
course the freshmen ran after the wood and we ran
after the water and the toilets were in a common
latrine over On the side of these shacks, I think
there were about 130 of them, about 16 by 16 square,
and there must have been an acre of cordwood sawed
and stacked up there because your house was heated
with a wood stove. How many students assigned to a
shack? Three. There were room, usually you
stacked two cots, One of them, there could be four
in there. It was a fairly good sized room,
approximately 16 by 16. And three could live in
there comfortably. And we, being sophomores, had
lots of fun there. Of course, it was right
convenient for people to drown out others,
because usually your bed was in front of a window.
There were three windows and a door in the room.
During the night, you may get a GI can of water
thrown in through the window on you. Another
common fun thing was while the students were out in
the mess hall for evening meal, someone might plug
your stovepipe and put sulfur or something else on
your stove, which made it rather untenable to live
in for a while afterwards. I could imagine that it
would. Wasn't burning of sulfur commonly used for
bedbugs? No, well, just somebody getting some
powdered sulfur or something that would stink and
smoke up the room. I haven't stopped up your
chimney, too, your stovepipe. So you got both the
sulfur and the smoke. We lived right by the shack I
was in, I think it was 102, and it was right beside
the Tunerville Trolley, which in those days ran
from College Station to Bryan at what I thought was
the best example of motion going in all directions
at once of anything you could find. In
fact, I've even got nauseated or motion sickness
from riding it from Bryan to College Station after
having dinner occasionally in town on Saturday
night.
You said you lived in the Hollywood Shacks for only
one year. Well, those times your outfits rotated
around. It didn't always stay in the same
dormitories every year. For how long were the
Hollywood Shacks there, do you remember? When I
came down here first for this older boys'
conference in 1924, I think it was January 24, At
that time they had tents. These were out in front of
the YMCA building where Law and Pereer Hall are now
located. They had a wooden deck floor and then a
pyramidal tent and the students lived in those
tents which at the time I was down here it snowed and
I guess rather uncomfortable in a tent in the
wintertime in the snow. But by the time I had come
back the following year they had built a hundred
some odd of these Hollywood shacks, we called
them, out there where the tents were. These
stayed in that location until Law and Prayer Hall
were erected, which would be 1926, I believe, and
started in 1927. And that area and what they did is
simply moved them on back further toward the
railroad track and what is now the parking lot
beside Law and Career Hall. Where they were
continued to be used as dormitory rooms. They were
used as dormitory rooms. I don't remember when we
discontinued them now. They were sold off and
floated all over Rises County people have brought
them up because they're a nice little house. I've
been told that there's still some in existence in a
few places. There were a few on the campus till not
very many years ago that were used for storage
sheds. In fact, Cashin Cabin down in Hensel Park is
composed of three of those cabins that were put
together to make one house. It originally was down
in
where a lake was in the horticulture farm area just
west of the railroad and when they built the ag
engineering building or the greenhouses, the
first time this cabin was moved down to Hensel
Park, used as a recreational area for quite a
number of years and still is in existence there
now. You mentioned that you lived in Leggett as a
fish and as a junior. Where did you live as a senior?
As a senior, I lived in the north corner on the third
floor of Mitchell Hall. I remember the rooms in
Leggett Hall, 51 my freshman year and 55 my junior
year.
I don't know what the number was, didn't make a
difference, but I lived in the only actually the
third floor, with Richard Akers, who graduated
with me. You mentioned that in the Hollywood
shacks it was fairly convenient for drowning out
at night or stuffing up the stove. What was life
like in the main dormitories? I would imagine it
would be a little bit more difficult or
complicated for drowning out, and of course,
stuffing up the stovepipe was not a possibility
there. In Leggett Hall, we slept in three bunks
strapped to each other, one above the other. My
first three years in A&M, I had two roommates. One
was Carol Dautre from Houston and Johnny Yonick
from Weimar. Yonick died during the war.
The fellow who drew the top bunk In the wintertime,
never had to have any cover. We had radiators in the
room, and of course the higher up you got near the
ceiling, the warmer it was. So it got pretty warm up
there in the winter. Now going back to the shacks,
for a moment, the wood stoves we had in there made
awfully nice places to have a weenie roast or do
some other cooking that you might improvise on a
cold winter evening, but I guess one of the big
differences was of course you had a company
usually had a floor and maybe part of another and
two floors, but at that time it was common practice
for any upperclassman who wanted any errand run or
any work done for him to stick his head out the door
and holler freshman. and all the freshmen on the
floor had to break their neck getting there
because the last one there was the one who got the
chore. So sometimes it got to be quite a rat race,
students making their way to the, trying to get
there first rather than last. And there was no way
of knowing in advance what the responsibility
might be. And of course most In the dormitories, in
the shacks, the freshman students always had the
job of cleaning up the upperclassmen's room. You
were usually assigned to some upperclassmen's
room, and that was your chore to make up the beds,
change the linen, and sweep the floors, and wash
the basin, what have you. This was always an
unofficial responsibility, though. Well, yeah,
but you knew what your job was. After
you became an upperclassman, I assume then you had
a choice of who would be your fish? Normally you
did, yes. Where one
freshman didn't have too many rooms, they used
enough freshmen to go around and keep it up. Of
course, there were some rooms that freshmen
detested very much having to clean up because
naturally some people aren't as neat and clean as
others. But there was not necessarily a rotation.
No, you might keep your assignment for the
semester. Sometimes it would change, but there
was no real method about it.
What about the food that was served to you in a mess
hall? uh pretty good or did you have a lot of
complaints about it well it was my observation
that there was hardly a freshman who came here i'm
speaking particularly the freshman now who
didn't gain weight that year of course this was due
to two things probably a regularity of work and
sleep and meals plus meal hounding it was called
then At the tables, you were seated by companies,
as I guess it's done now in Duncan Hall. But it was
your job to seat the upperclassmen. We're fed
first, and then if anything was left, you might
fill up on gunwadding and regulator. Regulator,
it was molasses, and of course gunwadding was
bread. And crews from table to table to find
something was left over to fill up. And a lot of
them, a lot of students had made quite a fetish out
of trying to bring things out of the mess hall. Of
course, they had an army sergeant stationed at
each door to try to check people to keep them from
carrying off all the silverware in China and food.
But they were very innovative. methods that were
worked up to get out with a pie, or maybe it was bread
and molasses, or whatever they might find they
want to bring up. And particularly, the freshmen
had the job of bringing food out to some of the
upperclassmen who didn't like to get up on Sunday
morning and go down for breakfast. So on Sunday
morning, and you weren't required. Sunday
morning breakfast was voluntary, no formation.
Every other day it was by formation. By formation
you fell in and then marched to the dining hall.
Usually at retreat in the spring and the fall
we had retreat formation with a band playing and
the cadet corps marching in. The military walk was
a military walk in those days. It was closed off to
vehicular traffic and During the week, you
marched from wherever your dormitory was down the
Military Walk to Speza Hall. On Sunday morning,
you marched the other way to Guyon Hall for
Compulsory Chapel.
I think one of the most embarrassing
occurrences my senior year, my organization at
that time, formed in front of Leggett Hall between
Leggett and Mitchell, down in that area, and we
were the first outfit to march in the dining hall.
On Sunday nights, well, half of Brian, it seemed,
came out to watch the cadet corps parade in the
dining hall. I was a cadet staff officer in the I
remember the first Sunday evening it came my lot to
take the cadet corps to the dining hall after
retreat. I was down just in front of the dining hall
and of course was facing the organizations and
giving some commands and then did an about face to
march off. Well, we wore boots as they do now and
spurs. And somehow or another when I did my about
face and had my feet together and then stepped off,
my feet didn't go with me. I went but my feet didn't.
My spurs got hung together and locked and I fell
flat before all the crowd out there in front of the
dining hall. I would imagine that would be a rather
embarrassing situation.
At
the time when you were a student, did you have a
guard mount in the evening during the quiet hour?
No, we didn't have a guard mount, but you had called
quarters and the senior company commander or his
assistant, it was his job to see that you didn't
roam around and and visit, and if you left during
call to quarters, which I believe was between 7.30
and 10.30 or 10.45,
you were not to leave the dormitory or rooms unless
you got permission and then you had to post notice
on your door where you had gone and when you'd be
back. But there was no one walking guard to her to
see that you were there. But the matter of posting a
notice was for all classes, not just the freshmen?
I don't remember that it applied particularly to
the upper class when they had, of course, a little
more freedom than the freshmen.
But the regular guard mount had been discontinued
some years before I came.
You mentioned the fact that perhaps the
upperclassmen had more freedom than the freshmen
as far as moving around the dormitory at night and
not having to post a notice of where they were. What
other privileges did upperclassmen have?
I think we talked earlier about the upperclassmen
were fed. They got the first choice of the meal at
the mess hall.
Of course, they got there. rooms clean.
I don't know of any particular ones. Passes to
leave the campus were a little more lenient, but if
you weren't 21, you still were supposed to either
get an individual or a standing permit, one from
your parents, to authorize you to leave the
campus.
to go anywhere other than Bryan or College
Station, of course. Well, College Station wasn't
here then.
A large number of the staff and faculty lived on the
campus. It seemed like we had somewhere around
250, 300
faculty houses altogether, both on the campus and
some off on the farms.
In fact, the block that the Student Center
occupies now was completely filled with faculty,
cottages, and all down from that block, well,
where the new athletic dormitory is just
finished, was houses.
Raleigh White Coliseum is on both sides of that.
And then, of course, behind Guyon Hall on the side
of the present Tower Center now. And on down
what was called Quality Row. That's a street that
goes down now past the President's House and
General Ludeke lives. This was called Quality Row
because on that street the heads of departments
and directors and some of the deans lived. Was that
the street where those original brick houses? The
original brick houses were on the side of the park
alongside just west of the dormitories, the 12
dormitories. And I believe there were also some
faculty houses over where the USDA That's right.
The area that the, what we called then the four
dormitories, at one time were 14, 15, 16, 17. And
where the USDA building is now, 500-inch staff
houses occupied that area. And then on up where the
more recent dormitories were built there, I'm not
familiar with the names of those now. Between
there and the U.S. Post Office were houses, and
then there was old Alpha and Beta Hall, which were
two-story frame buildings where the casuals
lived. We called the students who were not taking
military science, either been in World War I or
were physically disabled or were rather old, not
taking military science, and then the Cadet Corps
were called casuals, and they lived in those
buildings. And then in 19, what, 26th, I forget the
year now, the Aggieland Inn was constructed on the
site of these. And for many years, was the only
state owned hotel in the United States.
Used to be quite a center for food, coffee, and a two
dollar room. Somewhere in our picture file, we
have a picture of a Shirley Hotel, which was
considerably earlier. Do you know where that was?
Yes, the Shirley Hotel
was just opposite the Board of Directors'
quarters. At that time there was a road that curved
off of Houston Street about the Board of
Directors' room and went on down to one of the north
gates where the interurban from, or Tunerville
Trolley we always called it, the interurban from
Bryan College Station left the campus or entered
the campus. And then
beside the street and the track there was what was
Postgraduate Hall, PG Hall, where graduate
students lived. And across the street from that
was the old bachelor's quarters, which I lived in
for a year after I graduated.
But there were many occupants left around here
that John Paul happened to work with. Yeah, I see.
Duke Thornton lived in Batchelor Quarters,
Batchelor Hall. He was the head of me there. He
married at that time. Let's see. There was T.R.
Spence, with whom I had the pleasure of working a
number of years when he was manager of
construction for the A&M system, was born on the
campus. And I believe one of the houses, I mean that
Dean Spence lived on the site I believe of the
student center. And I believe Guy Adrens was born
on the campus too.